hello and welcome back to rails Quest
today we're going to talk about how to
get paid in your rails app that's right
we're going to look at a gem that makes
it easy to integrate payment processors
into your app and get you paid for all
your hard work building your rails
application so let's take a quick look
at the gem that we're going to look at
today the gem is simply called pay
should be easy to remember this when you
want to reach for integrating payments
into your rails app and you're wondering
hm what what gem should I use okay the
pay gem it's on the pay rails organ
ization on GitHub so here's the
documentation for it and we're not going
to spend too long looking at that cuz I
want to get to the good part of
demonstrating how it works and the
actual code that I use to integrate this
into a rails app of mine recently but
here's a quick overview bunch of payment
processors it supports the one that I'm
using today is stripe and there's a
whole lot of configuration and
customization that you can do with the
app but the app abstracts over most of
the challenging parts of integrating
with a payment processor it's not so
much that it's difficult in concept it's
just a lot of busy work you've got a
store customer IDs and stuff and where
you going to put that are you going to
design your database model this way or
that way well they've taken a lot of the
guess work out of that for us it comes
with models so when you install it it's
going to add some migrations to your
application and create those models or
tables in the database for you and it's
going to store the metadata for stripe
for you it's going to handle web Hooks
and we'll look at that today also so you
don't have to implement the web hooks
yourself it's going to do that for you
the list is really the robust list of
things that it handles for you and I'm
going to show you just a few lines of
code that I used to add stripe support
to my rails app and I used a feature of
stripe called stripe checkout which I
don't even have to write the code for
the payment page or for the billing page
it's all built into stripe for me so
it's very convenient if you had multiple
apps that you wanted to integrate you
just have to be doing the same work
every time so you want to use a gem like
this to reduce the busy work there so
now we're going to take a look at this
app so I have an app that allows you to
purchase credits that you can use to do
cool stuff in the app we're not going to
worry too much about exactly what the
app does right now right now I just want
to show you how the billing Works how
does it integrate with stripe and
confirm that the customer paid and then
do whatever logic needs to happen once
the customer has paid there's just a
step that I need to do before I can
demonstrate how this works for you we
need to set up stripe to listen to our
web hook so we need this secret
here and we're just going to set that
secret right here for now so now our app
should be hooked up to stripe I'm just
going to enter some test card data as
you you can see it doesn't much matter
what you put in here okay now we have
100 credits so what all happened there
you saw that I went to another page if I
click this again you'll see we're off of
my app now we're on the actual stripe
checkout page if I go back to my app you
can see the URL is vid tweet. test
that's my local rails app so if we go
back over to where we told stripe to
listen to web hooks we're telling stripe
with this command to listen to web Hooks
and forward those web hook requests to
our application running locally and in
the output you can see what exactly the
web hooks were that it sent we have
charge succeeded payment intent
succeeded all these different things and
they were sent as posts to my rails app
if I look at routes we can see I don't
have any of those routes in my
application so all of that came from the
pay Jem so here's a very simplistic way
to generate a checkout link that you can
then use in your view as a regular link
that will send your customer to the
stripe checkout page and then you can
set the place that it will send your
user back to when they're done checking
out so I have here the success URL is
the root URL and the cancel URL is back
to the page that you were on and you set
all this other data here set the
quantity the currency all that good
stuff so let's go to the view once again
what we're looking at here is a simple
link to the checkout session URL right
here this is the important part so
remember we've assigned checkout session
instance variable to be the result of
this call to current. user. payment
processor. checkout and then in here we
just ask for the URL from that object
from that point it's out of your hands
you don't have to build the billing page
that you see here stripe already has it
built for you and they support all the
different payment methods and your user
has all that good stuff but what happens
after that so you already saw that we're
giving it where to go back to so it
knows to send the users back to your app
it's going to send back to the root URL
of the app in this case on success but
what happens after that that's where the
web hooks come into play so you see we
have checkout session completed charge
succeeded all that good stuff let's take
a look at the initializer that I
added just going to distribute this
across some lines to make it easier to
look at and demonstrate so this is all
spelled out in the documentation but you
can set up web hook listeners so that
you can hook your own custom logic into
the flow so when the checkout session is
completed or when the async payment is
succeeded we're going to in either case
delegate to this fulfill checkout object
which is my own model in my application
so let's go there so the API is very
simple you implement call on this class
and it will pass an event into it and
then you can do whatever logic you need
to do you can check and make sure that
the payment status is paid then you can
ask the customer to increment and add
their credits so in this case I had
added metadata to the payment the
checkout link you can see increment
credits bu and I'm using that same piece
of metadata to add credits and that's
what happened in the app they got 100
credits and that is really the extent of
it you still need to know about stripe
and be able to set up an account or
lemon squeezy or any of those other good
things but those have good documentation
and they walk you through the steps of
how to get API credentials and also the
payment gem has detailed documentation
for how to set this stuff up and you can
see there's a step about how to get
credentials it has great documentation
very detailed one thing I will tell you
is if you want to know about checkout
you'd have to go almost to the end of
this and that's what I showed off today
and it really is one of the simplest
ways to implement this it doesn't allow
you much customization but it's just
about the simplest way way to get paid
in your rails application and that's why
I'm showing it off today so you'll have
to skip all the way down to this step
and again there's a warning that you
need to set up web hooks in order for
stripe checkout to work because your
application isn't the one initiating the
charge right it's sending you to stripe
but that seems pretty okay to me because
the paym already implements the web
Hooks and as you see it was very easy to
hook into and customize the logic that
happens on checkout that is my Lightning
Fast overview of the paym and I showed
you all the code that was required to
set that up all you got to do is install
the gym and follow their steps then
after that I've showed you all the code
that I needed to actually Implement
payments into my app so I'm excited to
see what y'all build and get paid for
using the pay gim if you do let me know
I'd be happy to accept donations if you
would like to send a tip my way if you
get paid because of this video that
would be awesome but is not required
anyway with that I hope you have a
blessed week please like And subscribe
share the videos with people who you
think would find them useful and I'll
see you again next time